Hi, everybody. Welcome to the Data Science Hangout. If you're joining for the first time,
it's great to meet you. I'm Rachel, I'm the host of the Data Science Hangout. If this
is your first Hangout, this is an open space for the whole data science community to connect
and chat about data science leadership, questions you're facing and really what's going on in
the world of data science. I'll also say, as I mentioned last time, if you are watching
this on YouTube in the future, you can also join us live and we'd love to have you. But
we always want to create spaces where everybody can participate and we can hear from everyone.
I'm getting a little bit of background, but there's three ways to ask questions. So you
could jump in live, you can raise your hand on Zoom, you can put questions in the Zoom
chat and just put a little star next to your question in the Zoom chat if you want me to
read it out loud. But we also have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously
too. And someone from rstudio will help share that in the chat in just a moment. But I just
want to reiterate, we love to hear from everyone, no matter your level of experience or area
of work. So today, I'm so excited to be joined by my co-host, Jenny Listman. Jenny is a Director
of Research at State Space. And Jenny, I'd love to have you introduce yourself. I know
you've been on here a few weeks before, but share a bit about your work.
Hi. Well, so first, thanks so much for having me. And thanks to rstudio in general for providing
this forum for the community. It's great. So I'm Director of Research at State Space
Labs, and I think probably most people don't know of the company. Some people may know
of some of our products, but without knowing the name of the company. So it was founded
by neuroscientists who met at NYU. It was founded about five years ago. So the company
combines neuroscience, gaming, and AI to build products that help people maximize their performance
and connect with other people while having fun. So that's vague. But the underlying technology
is based on research methods from sensory motor neuroscience and cognitive psychology.
So there are multiple products that the company has. If you're a gamer, in particular, if
you're an FPS gamer, you might know of our first product, which is called Aim Lab, which
is a first-person shooter assessment and training scenario, although a lot of people
use it just because they think it's fun. So they play it as a game on its own. We also
have Aim Blocks, which is Aim Lab in Roblox. We also have two esports and gaming coaching
platforms where we can connect players with coaches and training content. And we also
have a digital health group that's been working for a while in stealth mode. So I think most
people have no idea, especially people who are familiar with the company through Aim
Lab or Aim Blocks, they have no idea that we have a digital health arm. So the digital
health group is working on gamified cognitive and motor performance assessments. And so
the company, while it's founded, it was founded by scientists and the underlying methods and
the underlying analytical methods and assessment methods or strategies are developed in-house
by scientists. Many of the other people who work at the company come from the gaming industry
or are diehard gamers. So the engineers, the designers, user experience, marketing,
and analytics, there are people who either came from the gaming industry or are really
serious gamers. We also have former esports pros and coaches, streamers working at the
company. So that's state space. I don't know if I think I saw one person nodding when I said
Aim Lab. So maybe we have some players here. Yeah.
Yeah. And to maybe put us all in kind of like your frame of reference too, I'm curious, what
are some of the business problems or things that you're helping to solve or things your team's
working on too?
So the company has, I would divide our data questions, problems, goals, into kind of two
buckets. So first of all, I should preface that by saying a lot of people assume that because
Aim Lab is free, I think the default assumption is that we're selling people's data, which
we're not. We just keep all of the data in-house and use it to improve the product or build
other products. So that's number one. But I would say we have two different buckets of data and
analysis needs. So one is the kind that you might encounter at a company, another company with a
customer-facing product. So retention, customer segmentation, marketing analytics, A-B testing. So
we have those needs. But there's also a lot of science going on at the company. So we have
another bucket of data needs that might be more what you would expect at a digital health
company or even in an academic lab. So that even applies to the Aim Lab product or Roblox
product, so even the gaming products and not just the digital health products. We're still
doing things like figuring out how do we measure certain aspects of human cognitive
motor performance through their interactions with a computer? How do we extract scientifically
valid signals from the data? How do we estimate the extent to which different environmental
factors or practice habits affect performance? So, yeah, when I think about our data needs,
I sort of bucket them into these two categories. So we have a data and analytics group that works
on the problems that you might normally associate with a data science or analytics group. And then
we have an R&D group or a science team that works on a lot of the other problems, but the
results of our work feedback into each other.
That's great. And while we're... I see a few people are very familiar with Aim Lab. I see Sam
mentioned that. Well, while we're waiting for some of the questions to come in from the audience,
something I'd love to ask you about from a follow-up previous session was around
resume reviews. And I know we had brought that up about how it'd be great to be able to connect
people from the community, people that could share their resume and others that could help provide
feedback. And I'm curious if there is specific feedback or tips that you generally share with
people? Good question. I think... So first of all, I think a theme that I've seen on this,
the data science hangout, but just in general online among the data science community is like,
well, how do I transition? How do I get my first job in data science? And I think part of the
problem is just the word data scientist. It means so many different things that at a certain point,
it loses meaning, right? I think people use that term to describe a business analyst or
someone in another context, someone could just use the same term to describe
someone who's using neural nets to solve problems. Right now, I don't do either of those things.
So I think partly the data science community might need to start doing a better job at
describing these different kinds of jobs, because if you're just starting out
or you're trying to, whether you're transitioning out of academia or you're an undergrad or
graduating with a master's degree and you want to go into data science, what does that even mean?
So I think it might be good if the community could come up with some better definitions. I
know there are some people who have done some really good work around that. And
as far as general advice, I would say one of the things that I've seen
are people who are not, this is what we talked about previously, people who are not good at
promoting themselves. And I, in a previous life, was definitely guilty of that. And so I think
just that skill alone, learning how to write about your own accomplishments as if it was someone
else writing for you, is a skill to learn on its own. Yeah.
Yeah, I think that was something Libby had mentioned before in the chat too,
like thinking about somebody else writing that about you. It's good to hear that.
It's good feedback. I will mention too that this is just an experiment, but I was thinking if we
wanted to start a resume review club through the Data Science Hangout, I did make a Google form
where you could just say, you could upload your resume or you could raise your hand to say,
I would love to help review someone else's. So I just put that link in the chat if people want
to check it out. Yeah, I would say this is totally my fault. I did this to myself.
This came up because, I don't know how long ago it was, maybe three, four weeks ago,
someone at State Space forwarded me a resume for someone who was applying for one of our
data analyst positions and asking, is this person qualified? Should I tell them to apply?
So I looked at the resume and immediately certain things jumped out at me like the
most important accomplishment within each job, that previous job that had been posted,
the most important accomplishment at that job was listed last in the bullet points.
For more than one job that was listed, this person was, before giving themselves credit
for anything, was referring to their colleagues, which is wonderful. I trained under this person
who helped me or I contributed to something, something, something, but then they had done
things on their own and they weren't promoting that stuff first. And then out of curiosity,
I looked at this person's LinkedIn page and saw, well, there's a whole bunch of amazing things that
were listed on their LinkedIn page that hadn't even made it onto their resume. So I responded
and said, they may very well be qualified to apply for this job, but before that happens,
forget about this job. This person just needs to really redo their resume and do a better job at
telling everyone how wonderful they are. And then after I saw that, I messaged the New York
Slack chapter for the New York Our Ladies Slack group asking, does anyone know of a forum where
people can get their resume reviewed? And there wasn't really a response. And then I mentioned it
on a data science hangout and realized, oh, I just assigned that to myself probably.
So, but yeah, no, thank you, Rachel, for kicking that off because I can't do it by myself. I think
that's part of the point. Yeah. Thank you for the idea of it. And we had a few people use it already,
even just as an experiment and got great feedback on how the process worked. I'm sure we'll have
more people starting to use it. So I'll keep in touch with you of how that's going. I see, Ethan,
you just put a question into the chat if you want to just jump in. Yeah. Hi, Jenny. I'm an M Lab
fan, FPS junkie. So when I see that there's an M Lab company, I'm so excited that you'll be talking
about. So you mentioned that M Lab was started by neuroscientists. I'm curious how the task,
basically, for everyone here, M Labs, basically, you have different tasks that you, basically,
sensory tasks that you click on. And how was the task first designed? Was it driven by
the neurological science side or the gaming side? And also, could you give us a flavor of what
sorts of analysis you can do on M Lab data? Basically, I'm trying to imagine, could gamers
actually help healthcare research? Yeah. So they can. So the first tasks and the underlying
technology was developed based on the kinds of experiments that often go on in psych labs,
except with a much more boring stimulus. Like there's a horizontal line on the screen,
and there's a vertical line on the screen, and click when you see this. So
some of those basic types of experiments were, basically, overlaid with gaming scenarios.
So, well, I see someone in the chat, not just executive function tasks, but there are,
I don't know, maybe at least like 100 tasks right now in M Lab. Some of them
concentrate more on tracking something that's moving, like a smooth tracking movement. Some
of them are more ballistic movements. Some of them assess working memory. But the trick with
something like M Lab is that, like I said, a typical experiment in a lab,
you know, people are paid. They're there for, you know, maybe an hour, and it's boring,
but they're being paid. So if it's a game, it has to be fun, right? So the tasks in M Lab have to
balance the, you know, from the perspective of the scientist, being able to collect scientifically
useful data, while being fun enough that people want to play it, and also being similar enough
to the gaming scenarios that they're actually trying to train for. So it's a total balance.
It's a continuous balance when, you know, for any of the tasks that are designed.
Yes, I saw you share an article in the Washington Post about people actually asked you guys to,
can you make the game more laggy, just to make it more similar to the actual game,
the tournament they have to compete in. I think the article mentioned that PUBG gamers,
that they asked you guys, can you lower the FPS so that it's similar to the actual tournament
that they're in. Yeah, I mean, people can, you know, change their settings in the game to,
you know, simulate whatever they're using in their favorite game. But we have,
a couple of times, we have asked M Lab users to participate in research projects. So we have had,
you know, research projects that were done directly with, you know, small numbers of M Lab
users. But for the most part, people are just playing the game, however they want to play the
game, with whatever equipment they want to use. Typically, you know, they're just playing the
typically in their home, it could be two in the morning, it could be one in the afternoon,
you know, somebody might play it for 10 minutes, somebody might play it every day.
And, you know, that's just so, so those are not experiments exactly, right? It's just whatever
data is coming in. We also, like I said, we now have this digital health group. So we are using
tasks, we're sort of taking the tasks from M Lab, and in some cases, porting them to
tablet, in some cases, leaving them as a, you know, PC based tasks. We were working with several
different universities on projects, having to do with assessing concussion, assessing
cognitive changes under hypoxia, so low levels of oxygen, oxygen deprivation that you might
experience at high altitude. We have another research project with pediatric cerebral palsy
patients. So the same technology that's and gamify tasks that are that were built for M Lab
can be used for for these research purposes and to, you know, assess cognitive and motor
performance outside of gaming. Yeah, I guess like, on the side of gamification, it's not just
making it like a game, you also have the review part. So after every session on M Lab, if you know,
it's actually tell you what you're good at, and you're tracking your performance over time.
So it's telling you something that you may have a lower left side screen weaknesses,
and maybe you're slow on that area, which is quite interesting. The other side is that you
have a leaderboard, so people can publish their results. Yeah, right. So people use it as a,
you know, to warm up before they play for their favorite game, or as a trainer to improve in their
favorite game. But like I mentioned before, there are plenty of people who just, you know, enjoy
playing in M Lab as it is and compete for positions on the leaderboard. Yeah.
Thanks, Jenny. That's interesting to think about all the data behind the games. And I mean,
I know Wordle is one that's been top of mind for a lot of people lately,
but thinking like what data could be behind that too. I see there was an anonymous question that
came in that was what are some things or skills specific to research that aren't traditionally
part of a data science exclusive role? I mean, what are some of the skills that
are specific to the, I assume this person is asking what are some of the skills that are
specific to like the R&D team versus the data science team? I think so, yeah. Okay. So for
one, some of the roles on the R&D team really require domain expertise. So some of the people
on the R&D team have PhDs in neuroscience, cognitive psychology,
bioengineering, but specifically, you know, people have worked on brain computer interface
projects. So people who have experience analyzing very specific types of data
and who have a background in cognitive neuroscience, cognitive psychology,
which, you know, isn't necessary for some of the other data science or analytics roles at the
company. Speaking of roles at the company, I know that you are hiring for a bunch of different
roles. Right. And curious to hear what you're looking for in each of those roles and
if they're on your team or. Yeah. So I am not a hiring manager for any of the current roles. We
don't have a role currently. Right now I'm on the R&D team. So the data and analytics team has,
I believe, two openings right now. Yes, Aaliyah, this is one of my co-workers, is on the call. So
there's data scientist roles on the analytics team. And there's also a marketing analytics
position, which I believe is separate from the data scientist roles. There's also
in digital health, there's a role in the digital health team that would be more along the lines of
a biostatistician. So those are the current open, you know, data related roles. But I should mention
that there's plenty of open roles. There's plenty of openings in engineering. There's plenty of
marketing product. So if you have, you know, friends who might be interested, definitely
direct them to our, I think all of the jobs are listed on on Lever, but I'm sure if you just
Google it, people would find all of the open positions. Awesome. And Aaliyah, feel free to
share them in the chat too, if you want to share the links to the job postings.
But just a reminder, everyone, feel free to just raise your hand on Zoom if you want to just jump
in live as well. But one question, Jenny, I'd love to ask you, and we actually used to ask this at
the beginning of all the data science Hangouts, but it's, what are you most excited about right
now, in data science for the next year? Or projects at work that are most exciting to you?
So for me, at the current projects that we're working on, I think, you know, Statespace is a
young company. So we're at the point now where I, we are better able to take advantage of all the
data that that we're collecting. So, you know, we have this enormous volume of performance data,
of human performance data. We've been able to write a couple of journal articles based on that.
So if you're, if you're coming from academia, the size of our data sets,
is really exciting. So, so that, you know, sort of like a playground, if you're, if you're coming
out of academia to have access to such a large amount of data. So on a regular basis, I find
that exciting. But we're at a point now where we are going to be able to, you know, combine data
from the different products that we have, so that they can feed off of each other, to really
maximize the experience of our users, and get better at personalizing the user's experience
to help them improve. So I think that, you know, it's been like a long time coming.
And, you know, before you can do something like that, you actually have to just spend a lot of
time immersing yourself in the data, to even figure out what's there. So yeah, so that,
that's on the horizon.
Thank you. I know, just from LinkedIn, and I spend a lot of time on LinkedIn, but,
but you had previously had your own consulting company as well. And I know there's a lot of
people in the data science space, who maybe even during COVID, just recently started consulting
businesses. And I'd love to hear a bit about your experience in that. And if you have some tips that
you might share with people listening. Yeah, so I, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my,
my initial academic training was in anthropological genomics. I worked in a
psychiatric genetics lab for a number of years. And then when I left academia, the role that I had
was in a, a center for STEM education at NYU's engineering school. And I did some,
you know, project outcome measures, I instituted a lot of,
a lot of quantification of the programs that they were offering to, you know, they,
they offered programs to like thousands of local kids in middle school and high school,
but weren't necessarily keeping track of the effects that the programs had. So I was able to,
to institute that, write some papers on that. I wrote a lot of grants
in that role. And a specific problem came up that I thought I can solve, I can probably solve this
with R. And it had been a couple of years since I had had to use R. I think I started using R
in grad school, probably like 2004. So there was no R studio, it was all command line.
But I thought I, I, there's this problem and I'm pretty sure I can, you know, find a package and
solve it in R. And when I started doing that, I was like, you know, I miss this. I miss this part.
Like I, I loved my job. I loved the people I worked with. But I realized like I, I, I need to,
I need to do this again. So I left that job and set aside a chunk of time
to turn myself into a data science consultant. And to do that, I, and I, I know this is advice
given, you know, maybe controversial advice given to people like, oh, assign yourself projects and
make a blog. And so, which I did. And I, I do understand that in order to be able to do that,
you have to have enough free time to, to be able to accomplish that, which I did.
And, you know, basically assign myself problems that would force me to have to learn new packages,
new tools, new analytical methods. And after doing that, I, I landed a, a gig as a
consultant for an education nonprofit that had a gigantic longitudinal data set.
And I worked for them for about maybe like a year and a half before starting
at Statespace. And even for Statespace, I, at first I was a consultant
writing a really large grant, like a monster grant. Didn't get funded, but that's okay because
it laid, it laid groundwork for a lot of other stuff. And then, and then I was, I was hired
full-time at Statespace. But yeah, so that I was not, you know, a full-time employee for this
company, the, I mean, for the, for the nonprofit, the education nonprofit,
but it took up enough of my time that it was, you know, for me, basically a full-time job.
What was that transition like of being a consultant for a company and then coming on full-time?
So Statespace is unusual. It's, the culture is unusual. The, you know, the flexibility of the
work hours is unusual. So I, it may, like the transition for me might not be what other people
would experience. The company has been remote from the beginning. There was no real office
when the company was really small. And then people started getting hired who were in different time
zones. There were thoughts of getting an office, but then the pandemic hit. So, and in the meantime,
the company raised more money and expanded. There are people who work at, for Statespace,
you know, all over the world. You know, we manage, you know, in a single meeting,
there could be people on like seven different time zones. Right. So, and the, the culture at
Statespace is people just have to get their work done. So nobody's really a nine to five employee
at Statespace. And I, I understand that, that, that also some people have negative opinions
about a company that's run that way, where, you know, the work hours are like, just get your work
done. It's whatever the hours are that, that you need to do it. And, you know, there's no specific
vacation time, just take vacation when you need it. And I understand that there are circumstances
in which a company might take advantage of that, or where people might work for a company that has
that kind of policy where they would feel really pressured to just never take vacation. And, and
it's just, that's just not how it works at Statespace. So I think I've had, there's one
job that I had when I left academia. I think I was there for maybe a year. Not, not the, not the job
at NYU. It was a different job where it was really nine to five. And I remember the first time I had
to, I had a dentist appointment, I had just a dental cleaning, and I had to take a half of a,
of a sick day to get my teeth cleaned. And I was just like, I don't, I don't think I can deal with
this. And, and I, I totally understand this is just a personal preference. There are plenty of people
who want a job where they know at, you know, 5 p.m. or 6 p.m. I'm done. Nobody can bother me.
And when it's the weekend, it's my weekend and no one can bother me. For me and my family,
this, the level of flexibility that I have at Statespace is actually really important and,
you know, a huge benefit for me. So as far as like the hours and, you know, there wasn't,
for me, it didn't feel like such a big transition going from consulting to working full-time at
Statespace. Other than, you know, I just, I, I now have like a lot more colleagues and,
you know, work, definitely work more hours. Yeah. Yeah. It sounds like there is an awesome
culture at Statespace just from even previous conversations that we had as well. And I see,
Sam, you actually just asked a question about this as well. Do you want to jump in?
Or I can, I can read it and you can add context, but it's, how do you ensure
employees at Statespace have a work-life balance to avoid burnout? That's a good question. I mean,
it is definitely a risk. So managers have to be really careful and be on top of that
to make sure that that doesn't happen. I think it depends on the role that somebody has at the
company and the level of, of responsibility that they have. For some of the people in,
for example, engineering, or we have a really, really large community team,
meaning the people who are on Discord or Twitter communicating, you know, in constant communication
with users responding in real time when people have a question or have a problem. And so for
those people, you know, certainly there's work to do on the weekends, or if something crashes,
there have to be engineers who are willing to, to fix something on the weekends. But yeah,
managers just have to be really careful about who has to take responsibility for that kind of thing,
like in an emergency. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. And thanks, Sam, for asking that question as well,
because I think that's something that a lot of us, I mean, I know there's a lot of talk around
burnout, but how do people know when they're actually experiencing burnout before it's too late?
Yeah. And again, I think that that is an issue that people have with companies that have this
sort of, you know, nebulous working hours and lack of specific vacation time. All I can say is,
I think it's working pretty well at State Space. You know, personally, I haven't had a problem with
it, you know, up to now. I mean, I appreciate being able to, you know, in the middle of the
week, if I have to take two hours during business hours to make phone calls to manage my 87-year-old
mother's health care, I can do that. I can, if it's, you know, a family member's birthday,
I can stop working at three and make a cake from scratch and do whatever I want to do to
help them celebrate their birthday. And then I don't feel, for me personally, then I get work
done on the weekend because it's really quiet and I don't have any meetings. I don't have any work
related meetings. And it doesn't bother me that I'm doing that because I also know that, you know,
I have the freedom in the middle of the week to exercise or, you know, do these other things I
need to do. But it's definitely a personal preference. There are people who really need
specific work hours for their lifestyle. I'm curious from the group here as well,
like if you have other tips too for avoiding burnout, or if there's things people want to
share in the chat. I see, Zach, you put a question in the chat if you want to jump in.
Yeah, I was just, of course, I'm British, UK law is a lot different to US law, especially around
holiday, and to take time off. I was wondering, how do you make sure, again, it's the burnout
question, is there a minimum days off, even because you said there's not like unlimited,
you can take as much days off? How do you ensure, other than just a general culture thing that
actually people do take enough days off? Because otherwise, there will be burnout no matter how
much they love their work. So HR does keep tabs on that. And they will make people take time off.
Like, I mean, they can see who's not taking time off. So yeah, occasionally people are
just told, like, go disappear for a while. You need to do that. Yeah.
I know we had to do that at our studio, because we do have unlimited time off. But sometimes when
you have unlimited, you don't actually take it off. So we have like quarterly check-ins now,
where you have to say, like, are you on track to take this minimum amount?
Yeah, that's really, yeah, that's really good. I guess it's also the pandemic, you're not going
on holiday, or people are starting now. I know for me, I've not taken enough days off. And
right for mine, they reset end of March. So they just reset, I always have to, I've only worked a
couple years, but I always get told in March, I have to take like four, five, six days off
to make sure I hit minimum requirements. Yeah, people don't even know what day of the week it
is anymore. So that definitely made it made it more difficult. Yeah. I like Mark's tips in the
chat, too. He said, a good manager who recognizes when the team needs a break is key. Yeah, or a
manager who takes time off themselves to set an example. Definitely. Yeah, I have also been
trying like on the, well, this is new, but on the weekend, like when 5pm Friday hits to
delete Slack off my phone, log out of my email, delete LinkedIn, that's a big one for me,
deleting LinkedIn, and then Monday, I'll let myself put it back on my phone.
So we'll see how that works. Yeah, I mean, I think for some people, like any other phone app, these
work related phone apps, people are just sort of addicted to clicking on them.
So yeah, definitely. I see there was a another anonymous question earlier that was any insight
on how trends like 5g and AR VR would shape the technology investment with AIM Labs?
So, I mean, VR, you know, I think any company that's working on anything related to video games,
you know, has to be paying attention to VR. We have released a couple of AIM Lab tasks on VR.
So, you know, any company that is working on anything that's presented in the form of a video
game, whether it's for entertainment or for health care, has to be looking at multiple
multiple platforms, PC, console, mobile, tablet, VR. Yeah.
How have you seen the customer experience or from the data based on people are using VR or not?
Well, so we, like I said, we've only released a couple of tasks in VR mode,
I assume, you know, sort of as a test to just to test out that technology. They seem to be pretty
well received. I mean, there's, you know, I think the headset technology still has a ways to go in
terms of not everyone is physically comfortable with headsets. You know, there are people who
get nauseous from them, things like that. And there's also it's an additional cost, right? Like
if you're trying to reach a large number of people, you know, mobile phones are probably
the easiest way to reach the largest number of people without assuming that everybody's going
to go out and buy another piece of equipment. So right now, headsets are pretty expensive,
and it's not like most people have it in their home.
When you were talking about some of the work that state space is doing in public health,
do you have partnerships with different hospitals or organizations? Or what does that look like?
So right now, we have several research projects that are that are ongoing. One with Mount Sinai
Hospital in New York. That's the project that we're doing where pediatric patients with cerebral
palsy are using some aim lab tasks that have been adapted for, you know, some are on tablets,
some are on PC, but adapted for use in that context. And for that, it's not only
that the mechanics of the tasks had to be changed, but all of the imagery and sounds and text had to
be changed because there can't be any gun imagery or, you know, anything about shooting like this
is a tool that's being used in a hospital and with kids. So the design team had to totally overhaul
the tasks and, you know, turn, like remove anything having to do with a gun or words having
to do with kill or shooting. One of the tasks, it's a tracking task. And this is like one of
my favorite things that came out of our work over the past year. It's a tracking task. So,
you know, someone has to follow something that's moving on the screen and track it.
And so instead of targets like round shaped targets, the targets are cats.
And they, I don't know, for people who are familiar with video games,
the target's health or an opponent's health is, you know, sometimes shown on the screen
as like a decrease, a bar that's decreasing in size or like, you know, something that's colored
that's fading. So the cat's health is like a rainbow that's basically coming out of the cat's
butt. And it just like shortens as the cat's life shortens. So yeah, so we had to adapt the tasks
for use for pediatric patients. And definitely our design team had a lot of fun with that one.
And then we have partnerships at Indiana University where we have a large study going
on with a lot of the athletes at Indiana University assessing concussion using adapted in-lab tasks.
And that's also at Indiana University is where we're doing a study on hypoxia.
Yeah. And we've also partnered with companies that wanted to use in-lab tasks to assess
their products or to, you know, to test out their products. So we've done some efficacy testing
or we've used in-lab task metrics as outcome metrics for efficacy testing of nutritional
supplements in partnership with a CRO. And we've built tasks for Kernel, which is a
neuroscience-based company. So yeah, we're using in-lab tasks for other kinds of research.
Cool. Thank you. I see, Raphael, you just put something, a question into the chat.
Would you want to ask that one live?
Yeah, I see this question about, you've read an article saying that cognitive abilities
begin to decline at 26. And we rely on previous experience more at that age. So is this true?
And does it mean I have to try harder to beat my 12-year-old brother? So that's a good question.
We did collect some data on age and performance in AIM Lab. And our data did indicate that
performance seems to peak before 26, like 24, 25 years old. But I would qualify that by saying
that, you know, the data that we're collecting, our data set is messy. This is not under controlled
conditions, right? Our users are playing AIM Lab at home. All of their equipment is different.
And we have no idea what time of day they're playing, right? We don't collect information
on their gender. So it's not like this was done in a lab, but our data showed that there was a
decline after like mid-20s. And there have been published studies that were conducted under,
with data conducted under controlled conditions that have similar results, like at around that age.
Yeah. But yeah, you know, things like game sense and experience, you know, cognitive control in
terms of restraining yourself so you don't shoot a teammate instead of an enemy, things like that.
You know, age might give you an advantage.
Thanks, Jenny. I see Raphael saying, oh no. I was thinking the same. Jordan, I see you have
your hand raised. Do you want to jump in? Yeah, sure. So specifically on that last question. So
I work at a company that also does cognitive testing, more focused with healthcare and
clinical trials. So our goal wasn't always to make them kind of fun. But funny enough,
we partner with a lot of, seems like we partner with some of the same people. But specifically
on the like declining cognitive abilities kind of post like 20s, mid-20s, we, yeah, I mean,
generally, depending on the task, you do see some like declines from that. It's the pinnacle.
But just so that in case anyone's worried, they're probably not going to be noticeable.
You might be psyching yourself out a bit too much with it, that we have cognitive test performance
data from like eight years to like 90. And for a lot of these tasks, there's not a big difference.
Things that involve reaction time, you will see a decline. But things that rely on sort of accuracy
or some sorts of, or depending on the memory paradigm, you won't have like a significant
decrease, unless there is some neurodegenerative disorder or some sort of injury. But if you're
generally a healthy person, you can probably still beat your 12-year-old brother. Yeah. I mean,
the other thing that's important is sleep. So yeah, you need to, you know, I think there are
people who think that if they practice, you know, just like cramming for a test, well, if I practice
for hours and hours, I'll get better. But if you do that until it's like three in the morning,
then you're actually, you know, not, you won't retain what you're learning, right? If you're
practicing and training, you're not going to really retain it. And also, you know, lack of
sleep in general harms cognitive performance. And gaming is a cognitive task. So yeah, you should
get, everyone should get some sleep. Sleep deprivation is actually how some cognitive tests
validate themselves, because everyone knows that not enough sleep is bad for you. So sometimes
for some cognitive tests, like we, you can replicate, or you can demonstrate that it is
sort of measuring aptitude, because you can see that in the group that had sleep deprivation,
they didn't perform well. It's more ethical than giving people brain injuries. So yeah, yeah.
But you do, definitely get sleep. Sleep is very good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's similar to
the oxygen deprivation study that we're doing where, you know, oxygen deprivation sounds,
it sounds worse than it is. This is like simulating high altitude levels of low oxygen.
So it's, you know, something easily reversible, like, you know, quickly reversible, and it's not,
you know, harming anyone. But it can't, it should result in some cognitive changes. Yeah.
Thank you. I see there are a few anonymous questions that came in too.
Sam, I saw you just put into the chat, what is state space's view on the recent controversy
around roblox? Is that how I pronounce it for child exploitation?
Oh, I would not, I would leave that up to our lawyers or our CEO to answer. First of all,
I'm not really sure what that refers to exactly. But yeah, that is a video. Yeah,
definitely not a question. He put a, there was a link in the chat. But we can, I can share that
later too. The anonymous question was some companies showcase their products and services
on virtual showrooms, almost like a first person video game experience. Do you see value in that?
I'm, I would need slightly more of an explanation to answer that question. I'm not really sure.
Yeah, some of those questions are anonymous too. So if you feel free to just like add
context on Slido too, if you want, or to the person that asked it.
But I'll go, I'll go to the other anonymous question that was there too. And this was,
are these the tasks that you're talking about? Are these proprietary tests or tasks
that are developed for devices? Or are they traditional cognitive tests that are redeveloped?
Oh, so some of our, our analytics are proprietary. And some of the tasks that we've developed are
definitely unique and proprietary. But, you know, and then some of them are, like I said, based on
experiments that are done in psych labs, you know, around the world, but the,
they're made more fun in, in AimLab. Yeah. So the, you know, the imagery and the sounds are,
make them, make them more fun. But I think the tasks that are in AimLab that,
you know, you could say are taken directly from, from academic research,
that proportion is probably pretty small. And most of the tasks are more
simulating scenarios that people would encounter in a game. But with
the, the measurements underlying it are, are proprietary.
Thank you. Can I ask you if there are any resources or podcasts or books that you've
liked recently that you've, you'd recommend to us? Oh my gosh. I, related to data science?
It doesn't have to be, it could be, it could be more general. I don't know. I think actually I
have a, a problem with that in that, like, I feel like I bookmark so many things, you know, I think
whether it's Twitter or LinkedIn, you come across things that look like, oh, this will be really
useful to read or, you know, useful video to watch. And there's almost like too many of them.
So I know I personally have a, have a problem with that. Yeah. But so I can't, I can't
give something specific right now. I mean, I, yeah, I, I mean, I definitely rely heavily on
the, you know, the, our community, whether it's blog posts or, you know,
all of the material that's free that other people who use R create, it's, you know,
one of the reasons that, that I stick with R. That's awesome. I, I see that Ian Moore is on
from Appsilon and Ian, I wanted to give you a moment to share about the Shiny Conference if
you wanted to jump in. Hey, Rachel. Sorry, I didn't expect you to be here.
Hey, Rachel. Sorry, I didn't expect this at all. Oh, sorry. I just really just put you on the spot,
but I saw you were still there. If you haven't heard about the Shiny Conference yet, it's
happening at the end of the month and we have an incredible lineup. We're super excited about it.
This is going to be the first Appsilon Shiny Conference. So there's, you know, some things
we're working out, but the general time zone, I believe is from 5am to I think 1pm Eastern time.
But most of the main content is going to be happening later in the day.
Awesome. Thanks, Ian. Yeah, I just put the link in the chat too.
Yeah, thanks again so much. It should be great.
Well, thank you so much, Jenny, for joining us today and for sharing all your insights and about
state space. It's great to, great to chat with you. And I appreciate you mentioning the need to
have this platform to help each other review resumes too. So hopefully we can. Yeah, yeah,
I'm really excited to see what happens with that. So thank you. I can see a few people already
filled out the form just from the call today, so it's awesome. Okay, great. And then, and I know
Aliyah posted links to, I don't know if that was a link to like all of our job listings or
the specifically the analytics job listings, but I can also, I can share a link.
Perfect. Yeah, and I can put that with the recording as well and as well as in the LinkedIn
data science community group. I'll put those job postings there too. But thank you all so much.
Thank you.